--- 
layout: default 
title: "Why We Should Care About Our Critical Infrastrucure" 
date: 2021-03-14 13:21:00 +0200 
published: 2021-03-14 13:21:00 +0200 
comments: false 
categories: blog
tags: [intro]
noimage: true
---

<em>This blog post was originally written on my personal blog. It is being reposted to this website due to its relevent content</em> <br><br>
  To think that the very infrastructure that gives us the gift of clean water, reliable electricity, and constant communication has the potential to be attacked is a cause for concern of mine. Defending our critical infrastructure is necessary to the stability of our nation. I hope to highlight why I take an interest in defending our critical infrastructure and why I find it to be incredibly important.
  <!--more-->
<br>
<br>
<p>
An attack on the Oldsmar water treatment facility and the events that are unfolding in Texas has put a spotlight on the delicacy of the country’s critical infrastructure. I’m sure we all saw the hot takes when the news that unauthorized access to the SCADA system at the Oldsmar water treatment facility was brought forth to the public. It’s easy to sit in the IT security ivory tower and cast judgment on the workers at Oldsmar if you read the briefing. Exposing a remote access tool to the internet is ‘How To Get Breached 101’ material, and talking about that is necessary to let the people know who aren’t aware of the threats to industrial control systems that what occurred is not a best practice. While that point should be driven home, it doesn’t solve the root cause of the issue at hand: budget. There is a real possibility that the workers at Oldsmar were aware that exposing a remote access tool was not a best practice but we as cybersecurity professionals should instead be focusing on why that choice was made. </p>
<br>
<br>
<p> I’m highlighting the Oldsmar attack as it’s an example of why we need to keep the spotlight on our critical infrastructure to solve the challenges that we will face in the future. It costs money to have security staff and the idea of industrial control systems being breached is a new concept to the utility and factory workers working in plants all around the country. These aren’t problems that can be solved overnight. While I have never been a worker in a utility company, my field of expertise is in cybersecurity. Particularly in securing networks and infrastructure from internal and external threats. The role that our industrial control system security colleagues play is similar, but they can understand how a physical process relates to a virtual one. This skill takes time to build as it isn’t easy to understand the idea of the machine-to-machine communication required to sanitize our water and how it relates to the physical process if your expertise is solely in the virtual world. Risks, threats, vulnerabilities, and primary focuses are vastly different on the industrial side compared to the enterprise IT side which makes the way we secure each environment different. </p>
<br>
<br>
<p> This website will combine my personal interests in CTI and ICS/OT as well as highlight my personal research into the threats that ICS and OT enviroments face. </p>
